Fish Face Farms1. What is Fish Face Farms?Fish Face Farms is Get Healthy Dallas’ urban farm initiative. The farm’s purpose is to increase the South Dallas community’s access to local, healthy, and fresh food, while also providing Ignite Academy students with hands on experience in social entrepreneurship and food production. Fish Face Farms will not be a traditional farm, but will use an aquaponics system to produce fresh fish and vegetables. 1. What is Aquaponics/Closed Loop Farming?Aquaponics is a sustainable food production system that combines the practices of aquaculture (raising fish in tanks) and hydroponics (growing plants in a soilless environment). Combining these two practices conserves water and allows the plants to naturally filter the fish’s waste from the water. Maintaining this system in an enclosed greenhouse allows year-round food production, and prevents putting any additional stressors on the surrounding environment. 1. Outcomes   1. How is FFF Going to be an educational resource?      1. Fish Face Farms is going to be an educational resource because it will provide an opportunity for students to gain hands on experience and apply their knowledge of business and agriculture (or aquaculture) in a controlled environment.  Fish Face Farms will be a wonderful liaison for students who would like to enter into the business world.      1. Alt. diction: Fish Face Farms is where students will put what they learn in the classrooms of Ignite Academy into action. As interns, Ignite student will have the opportunity to help maintain Fish Face Farms, cultivating their social entrepreneurship and food cultivation skills. Fish Face Farms will be a wonderful liaison for students who would like to enter into the business world. Fish Face Farms will serve as an educational resource for local schools, businesses, and organizations by teaching visitors the importance of healthy and locally sustainable food production while demonstrating the potential for urban farming.    1. How is FFF going to be a food resource?Through the aquaponic system, Fish Face Farms will be able to produce vegetables year-round, supplying fresh vegetables and fish for the restaurant at Ignite Academy. Fish Face Farms will also distribute fresh vegetables to the local community.    1. How will FFF be a neighborhood resource?      1. With Fish Face Farms opening at least two business entities in the community, the restaurant and the grocery store, the farm will stimulate the local economy by providing new jobs as well as supplying the area with fresh produce. 