Ignite Academy: Lincoln High SchoolProgram is designed to promote the health of South Dallas community by educating students on healthy cooking practices and equipping them with essential entrepreneurial skills. Ignite Academy will help students gain necessary knowledge to purse culinary carriers and give back to their communities. Objectives:College and Career readiness:* Students prepare for careers in restaurants, catering, nutrition, health, agriculture, & businessEmphasis on experience:* Internship, partnerships with industry, and skills application with in-school restaurantProfessional certification:* Students are prepared for the Safe Service Food Handlers Certification, Manager Certification, & NFTE CertificationIndustry partners:* With restaurateurs and chiefs through the Dallas restaurant associationCurriculum: This program will feature the nationally recognized Pro-Start Curriculum. Pro-Start’s industry-driven curriculum will provide real-world educational experiences embedded with both practical and 21st century skills. Additional opportunities for the students include a school-within-a-school environment, cohorted scheduling, restaurant management, industry certification, articulated and/or dual credit, and the unique opportunity to explore entrepreneurship through the Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship (NFTE).9th* Lifetime of Nutrition & Wellness* Principles of Hospitality & Tourism 10th * Culinary Arts* Restaurant Management 11th* Practicum on Culinary Arts 12th * Entrepreneurship or* Dual Credit @ El Centro* Practicum in Culinary Arts Brief Summary of the Ignite AcademyGet Healthy Dallas is working with DISD to establish the Ignite Academy at Lincoln High School. This program is unique in its multiple emphases on entrepreneurship, nutrition and agriculture, alongside its culinary arts classes. Once the program is fully functional, it will include a market garden, a demonstration kitchen and a restaurant that will be open to the public. The students will staff and run the restaurant and the garden. Through that process, they will learn about the full path that food travels on its journey from farm to fork. The Lincoln Ignite Academy integrates multiple aspects of the food system, and it is positioning students for a variety of career paths related to food. It aims to develop the future business owners who will set up shop in the community, which would benefit tremendously from the addition of more fresh food vendors, healthy restaurants and any related businesses that create local jobs. Many urban educational initiatives advertise their programs as a way for dedicated students to get out of hobbled communities, but the Lincoln Culinary Arts Academy takes the opposite approach: It leads students back into their neighborhoods. It gives them the skills they need to make their community stronger. It engages students in a project that is bigger than their individual careers and connects personal success with the success of their community. Instead of creating a world apart, the academy aims to engage more deeply. Great schools and great communities are linked. Connecting the curriculum with the central concerns of the community ignites student learning, and the Lincoln High School Culinary Arts Academy shows how that can be done..Guiding StatementsVALUESThis project must support students by promoting health through nutritional knowledge and hands-on healthy cooking skills training, support the community with access to healthy food and education on healthy living, and support the distinguished history of Lincoln High School by creating a new generation of influential leaders. This project will attract new students, position Lincoln as a leader in educational innovation, and provide the school and the community with pride in the start of something new.CURRICULUMThis program will feature the nationally recognized Pro-Start Curriculum. Pro-Start’s industry-driven curriculum will provide real-world educational experiences embedded with both practical and 21st century skills. Additional opportunities for the students include a school-within-a-school environment, cohorted scheduling, restaurant management, industry certification, articulated and/or dual credit, and the unique opportunity to explore entrepreneurship through the Network for Teaching Entrepreneurship (NFTE).SCHOOL CONNECTIONSThis project must communicate its development frequently and encourage involvement through experiential opportunities like sampling, voting for favorites, cooking classes open to all, and venue availability for fundraisers; partner with teachers in math, science, business, and history to owner interdisciplinary lessons; and have a presence at events, especially athletic events, where ECAP students may be vendors during games and sell athletic-oriented snacks for pre-game nutrition.PROGRAMMING AND SERVICESUsing food as a catalyst to bring the community together, the project facilities will host programming and events that support and raise the profile of Lincoln High School, provide needed services to the community, foster healthy competition as a means to showcase the program and the skills the students have developed, and provide a wide range of enriching opportunities for the school and the South Dallas community.STUDENT INVOLVEMENTThis project must deploy a strategic communication plan for both students and their parents; involve students in the spectrum of planning, advisory, monitoring, and evaluation processes; and use outreach strategies such as behind-the-scenes tours, after-school vending, and health education to build a desire in students to support their health through cooking. This project will prepare students to pursue a variety of paths upon graduation, including culinary school, starting their own business, working at a restaurant, or gaining further education in health professions or business.PROGRAM FACILITIESThe facilities should reflect and support the culture of the program, creating school pride and a feeling of family through spaces that are clean, well-equipped, modern, and flexible. Indoor facilities at Lincoln will include a demo kitchen, industrial kitchen, restaurant, and small group meeting areas; these spaces should provide opportunities to share the students’ work. Outdoor facilities will include a garden to grow food for the program and community, grilling area, and dining patio. O"-site facilities will allow for mobile community outreach.COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENTThis project can create opportunities for students to engage with the community while building presentation skills; inform parents, families, and community members through tiers and mailers; and involve community members through events, resources, program tours, project evaluation, and restaurant patronage. The project will provide numerous opportunities for participation and mentorship from culinary professionals, business professionals, media professionals, government representatives, and health and well-being professionals.PROGRAM OUTCOMESBy creating choice for the South Dallas community, this project will develop hands-on skills, promote personal health, and provide viable career options for students; garner positive publicity and community connectivity for the school; increase community involvement, promote healthy lifestyles, and contribute to a positive perception of South Dallas; and further the mission and goals of project partners.PARTNERSHIPSThis project will seek out partnerships with local independent and national chain providers of food and hospitality for donations and expertise, food industry professionals for expertise and mentorship, social venture groups for project investment, local artists and musicians for student collaborations, and social service providers to extend the program to the surrounding community.