1.  In Spring 2011, an SMU research team conducted a study on food deserts in South Dallas. 

In Spring 2011, students in the SMU Ethics Design Team and their advisor, Stacy Cherones, undertook a social-scientific study of a South Dallas food desert. Robert Foster, a South Dallas community advocate, connected the researchers with members of the Turner Twelve, a student-mentoring program made up of 12 high school students from Lincoln High School in South Dallas. Cherones and Foster met at SMU where they were both enrolled in the Ph.D program in religious studies. The team partnered with Dr. Owen Lynch, associate professor of communication studies at SMU, to design a study that would help the community better understand the problem and help them find a solution within. 

2. The research team’s findings concluded that, not only did the students in the community not have access to fresh food, but that opportunity and resources were lacking in the community as a whole.

The researcher team conducted a photo-voice examination by asking the Turner Twelve to capture their ideas of what healthy food choices were through photography. After looking at their photos, it was clear that the students living in the community that had limited to no access to fresh and healthy food. 

After conducting their research, Cherones, Foster and Lynch knew that something needed to be done not only about the food desert in South Dallas but also the students’ education. 

3. Cherones, Foster and Lynch founded Get Healthy Dallas as the solution to the food desert in South Dallas. 

Dallas has the nation’s highest drop out rate for cities over 1 million people. The dropout rate for African American high school students is 58 percent and the average annual income for a high school drop out is $17,299. 

Realizing the statistics, Cherones, Foster and Lynch wanted to give students the opportunity to succeed in their future in addition to providing them with nutritional education. The team founded Get Healthy Dallas (GHD), a non-profit organization that improves community health through holistic approaches and researched based local engagement. 

4. Soon after Get Healthy Dallas was founded, the organization initiated two projects, Ignite Academy and Fish Face Farms. 

Ignite Academy and Fish Face Farms are two initiatives under Get Healthy Dallas. Wanting to provide students with an opportunity for a healthier lifestyle as well as the skills to get a job after high school, Cherones, president of GHD, Foster, vice president of GHD, and Lynch, director of research and collaboration for GHD, founded the Entrepreneurial Culinary Arts Program, also known as Ignite Academy at Lincoln High School.

“We came up with the idea for the academy within the school because the school is where you have the people in the most need,” said Lynch. “You have the obesity rates in the school and you also have kids dropping out of school without jobs.”  

Ignite Academy will provide students with a new demonstration kitchen, professional kitchen, and student-run restaurant. ECAP will not only teach students about healthy eating but will provide them with hands-on experience in the culinary arts and entrepreneurial skills. The restaurant, serving only locally grown food, is not just available to students but the entire community. 

The locally grown food used at Ignite Academy will come directly from Fish Face Farms, Get Healthy Dallas’ urban farm initiative. Fish Face Farms will not be a traditional farm but will use an aquaponics system, a sustainable food production system that combines the farming of aquatic organisms with cultivating plants in water in an interdependent environment to produce fresh fish and vegetables. 

5. In Fall 2012, 80 9th grade students from Lincoln High School enrolled in Ignite Academy.

After introducing Get Healthy Dallas and its initiatives to DISD, Ignite Academy received tremendous support from DISD School Board Trustee Bernadette Nutall, a lifelong resident of South Dallas who is raising her children in the community. Nutall called the Director of Career and Technical Academies and requested that the Director and the manager of Culinary Arts Education meet with GHD to discuss the concept. Two years later, GHD has a close working relationship with the Career and Technical Academies and 80 students enrolled in a Culinary Arts Academy with a curriculum pathway tailored to the community needs identified by our research. 

6. 1 year later, Fall of 2013, 14 SMU students enrolled in a class taught by Dr. Lynch to continue the progress of Get Healthy Dallas. 

In Fall of 2013, Lynch opened a communication studies course at SMU and enrolled 14 students from the communication studies, advertising, and journalism departments. Rather than hiring professionals, Cherones, Foster and Lynch decided to look to SMU students to help uplift and manage Get Healthy Dallas. 

“It’s an opportunity to take some of the best students SMU has with requisite skill sets and help them apply what they’ve learned in class and the skills they’ve developed while studying towards a good goal,” said Lynch.

Overseen by Lynch and Cherones, the students are in charge of everything for the organization from branding, logos and media strategy to donor relations and fundraising events. 




