Stacy Cherones, President & Co-founder of GHDStacy Cherones moved to Dallas in 2007 to pursue a Ph.D. in Religious Ethics at Southern Methodist University. She holds a BS in Education and Social Policy and BAs in History and Urban Studies from Northwestern University, and a MA in Religious Ethics from Columbia Theological Seminary. Between graduating from Northwestern and returning to pursue advanced academic degrees, Stacy worked for two large multinational corporations in various capacities, including Strategic Financial Analysis, Strategic Operations, Community Affairs, and Training. During this period, Stacy began investigating the potential for leveraging private sector expertise in service of public good. This connection between private and public good is central to Stacy’s doctoral dissertation, which focuses upon democracy and social ethics. Stacy is now the Dean of Student Talent & Director of Center for Civic Engagement, Entrepreneurship and Leadership at Paul Quinn College.Owen Lynch Ph.D.  Director of Research & Collaboration for GHD Owen Lynch is the Associate Professor of Communication in the Meadows Schools of the Arts at SMU and the Director of Communication Studies & Public Relations Honors Program as well as the Director of the SMU in London Communication Internship Program. He is interested in how organizations and communities are reproduced through the everyday discourse and routines of its members. His research interests include qualitative methodology; specifically participatory research methods. Participatory research methods are geared towards planning and conducting the research process with those people whose life-world and meaningful actions are under study. His recent engagement with Lincoln High School in South Dallas hopes to use participatory research to encourage sustainable community revitalization. Robert Foster, Vice-President & Co-founder of GHDRobert Foster resides in South Dallas and serves as scholar-in-residence at the University Park United Methodist Church.  Foster earned his PhD in religious studies from Southern Methodist University, writing his dissertation on view of justice in the Christian biblical tradition.  Alongside his work in churches and teaching in university settings, Foster served as a lead researcher and community advocate with the Foundation for Community Empowerment.  